Analysis | The Countdown to the Next Israeli Election Has BegunEven if Benny Gantz hasn't yet decided what to do, the ball is rolling, and the dynamics of the seething street and the polarized political system will dictate the reality – elections, and soonPrime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu (bottom row, right) with several of his coalition's lawmakers, December.Credit: Olivier FitoussiYossi VerterApr 5, 2024 6:00 am IDTFor three weeks, Minister Benny Gantz paused his habitual weekly news conferences, telling confidants it was due to the sensitivity of the talks on a hostage release deal. He did not want, as it were, to face questions he would struggle to answer.The validity of this argument was challenged somewhat Wednesday evening, when he convened a news conference and supplied a political headline: a call to move up the general election to September of this year. The rationale: If early elections are announced, the protests will diminish and the disputes will move to the political front, to the radio and television studios.• 		 Gantz: Elections in September; Netanyahu: Gov't to continue until war goals met  How Israel's opposition has been systematically dismantled  Together we will win? Poll shows that Israel is more divided than everIt's an interesting, even credible, explanation. But Gantz may also be suspected of ulterior motives. His demand comes after his political partner-turned-rival, MK Gideon Sa'ar, proposed, after withdrawing from the governing coalition, holding the election in early 2025. Gantz matched Sa'ar's bet and raised him: September. Yair Lapid, who had demanded early elections back in late January, emphasized that even September is too late.Gantz speaks in a kind of secret language. It is always a good idea to look for what is not stated explicitly. Well, he didn't mention Rafah. Rafah: Not gonna happen. After all, this is the man who threatened that if there's no deal to free the hostages, Israel will invade Rafah even during Ramadan. And when he was in Washington, he declared that if we don't take care of the remaining Hamas battalions there it would be like "extinguishing 80 percent of a fire."So where is Rafah in all of this? The answer to this has to do with the Israeli mess, most of which has to do with the American position. U.S. officials have stopped concealing their absolute opposition to any incursion into a city that is currently housing around 1.3 million refugees. During his visit, Gantz failed to persuade them that Israel can meet the demands of the task within satisfactory parameters. The plans that Ron Dermer and Tzachi Hanegbi showed them only hardened their opposition.It can be assumed that Gantz was in sync with the Americans – maybe not on the message that was ditched, but on the one that was relayed. Indeed, in his remarks Wednesday, as noted, he skipped Rafah but mentioned the importance of the regional alliance, the Abraham Accords, which corresponds exactly to the American position.Open gallery viewWar cabinet minister Benny Gantz at a press conference on Wednesday.Credit: Oren Ben HakoonIn the end, what brought Gantz to his most significant news conference in months was not Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's failures in the war and the hostage issue, nor the fights in the war cabinet nor the recent polls – in which his National Unity Party bled votes. The Israeli street – led by protest organizations and the families of hostages, which since last weekend changed from angry to raging – was the motivation.There is nothing more asinine than calling it "a return to October 6." It is fitting to call it: a time of emergency. Despite Gantz and company's condemnation of the fringe, extremist actions in the protest (more on these later), he knows that the basis for the protest movement is justified. He also knows that just like "Balfour" or "Kaplan," the public rage will only continue to grow. And he must be there.The dynamics of the streetGantz' key message, which he obviously didn't say, was that he has been watching the protests and the intensification of demands for early elections. And he sees his National Unity Party's legitimacy as an alternative to the current government steadily eroding.Many Knesset seats' worth of votes are likely to evaporate. Six or seven seats' worth have already disappeared. Supporters of the protests, some of whom had been parked with Gantz, are now starting to slide toward Yair Golan's emerging left-wing party. And the non-Netanyahu right will leave National Unity for a party or parties headed by Naftali Bennett, Yossi Cohen, or Gideon Sa'ar.Before going to the media, Gantz called Netanyahu and "proposed" that he agree on an election in September that he could say he had done so at the press conference. Netanyahu's public response (issued under the name of his Likud party) was crude and aggressive even by his standards."Elections now will necessarily lead to paralysis" and division (says Israel's official divider, who dragged it into four elections in two years and worked 24/7 to destroy the previous government and bring about early elections.) Elections will "damage to the fighting in Rafah" (what fighting?), and deal "a mortal blow to the chances of a hostage deal." (Actually, just the opposite is true. Netanyahu, laden with failures and bound by his partners/lifesavers, will have to present the public with some achievement, and nothing would lift our low spirits a little like bringing home the women, the elderly and the wounded).Open gallery viewAnti-government protesters stage a four-day sit-in Jerusalem on Tuesday.Credit: Ahmad Gharabli/AFPThe issue of the hostages and the influence Gantz and his political partner, Gadi Eisenkot, wield in the war cabinet is amorphous. But judging by the results, it's nonexistent.Another National Unity Party minister, Chili Tropper, told me this week that Gantz and Eisenkot "are very dominant on this issue. As far as they're concerned, it's the most important and the top priority." If they discover in the near future that Netanyahu is blocking progress in the negotiations for political reasons, "quitting over this is a possibility." But at the moment, he added, that isn't the case.This week, Tropper said, the National Unity ministers met with eight hostages who were released. "We heard terrible things from them ... They don't say everything in public. But it was apparently hell."Some of them asked him, Gantz and Eisenkot not to quit the government. "You're the only hope," they told them. Incidentally, they also said that their repeated requests to meet with Netanyahu so that they could plead with him in person have so far been adamantly refused.When asked repeatedly at the press conference what he would do if his demands aren't met, Gantz refused to say. The truth is that he has no idea. In any case, they have already been rejected out of hand, accompanied by insults hurled at the demander, as quoted above. But he'll wait at least until the end of the Knesset's spring recess.But even if Gantz hasn't yet decided what he will do and when, the political mudball that has begun rolling will likely to take on a life of its own. Even if National Unity voters continue being divided in the polls over whether the party should remain in the government, the dynamics of the seething street and the polarized political system will apparently dictate a different reality, which is also the necessary one – elections, and soon. One could even say, "preferably yesterday." In fact, preferably two years ago.